ft_ping
Summary: This project is about recoding the ping command.
Version: 5.1Contents
IForewords2
IIIntroduction3
IIIGeneral Instructions4
IVMandatory Part5
VBonus Part6
VISubmission and peer-evaluation7
1Chapter I
Forewords
Ettore Majorana (born on 5 August 1906 – possibly dying after 1959) was an Italian
theoretical physicist. He is best known for his work in particle physics, with particular
applications of neutrino theory. His sudden and mysterious loss, in the spring of 1938,
gave rise to many speculations on a possible suicide in the Tyrrhenian Sea, or on a vol-
untary disappearance.
« There are several categories of scientists in the world; those of second or third rank
do their best but never get very far. Then there is the first rank, those who make impor-
tant discoveries, fundamental to scientific progress. But then there are the geniuses, like
Galilei and Newton. Majorana was one of these. »
In 1926, Professor Corbino, eager to promote modern physics in Rome, appointed En-
rico Fermi to the chair of theoretical physics; Edoardo Amaldi and Emilio Segrè joined the
group in the fall of 1927. Segrè succeeded in convincing Majorana that physics matched
his aspirations and abilities, and in getting him to join the physics faculty as well. This
transfer is made in January 1928, after a meeting with Fermi.
The meeting gave rise to a significant anecdote: Majorana asked about current re-
search at the Institute. Fermi was working on the statistical model of the atom: he
hypothesized that the electrostatic potential to which an electron is subjected is approx-
imately equal to the average potential created by the nucleus and the other electrons,
which makes it possible to determine an approximate value of the energy level of the elec-
tron. Fermi exposes to Majorana the general lines of this "universal potential of Fermi"
- which will take later the name of model of Thomas-Fermi -, then shows him a table
where he gathered some of the numerical values of this average potential, that he had
calculated in one week with the help of a mechanical calculating machine. Majorana
listens with interest, and after having asked for some precisions, leaves. The following
day, at the end of the morning, Majorana returns to the institute, enters the office of
Fermi and without preamble asks to re-examine the table which he saw the day before.
Drawing then from his pocket a paper on which in one night he makes a similar table,
but complete, he concludes that the results of Fermi are right. Then he leaves the office.
Source.
2Chapter II
Introduction
Ping is the name of a command that allows to test the accessibility of another machine
through the IP network. The command measures also the time taken to receive a response,
called round-trip time.
3Chapter III
General Instructions
• Your project must be realized in a virtual machine running on Debian (>= 7.0).
• Your virtual machine must have all the necessary software to complete your project.
These softwares must be configured and installed.
• You must be able to use your virtual machine from a cluster computer.
• This project will be corrected by humans only. You’re allowed to organise and name
your files as you see fit, but you must follow the following rules
• You must use C and submit a Makefile
• Your Makefile must compile the project and must contain the usual rules. It must
recompile and re-link the program only if necessary.
• You have to handle errors carefully. In no way can your program quit in an unex-
pected manner (Segmentation fault, bus error, double free, etc).
• You are authorised to use the libc functions to complete this project.
ATTENTION: Program in C, all libC is authorised, using the system
ping or the sources of a standard ping in any way is forbidden.
4Chapter IV
Mandatory Part
• The executable must be named ft_ping.
• You will take as reference the ping implementation from inetutils-2.0 (ping -V).
• You have to manage the -v -? options.
The -v option here will also allow us to see the results in case of a
problem or an error linked to the packets, which logically shouldn’t
force the program to stop (the modification of the TTL value can help
to force an error).
• You will have to manage a simple IPv4 (address/hostname) as parameters.
• You will have to manage FQDN without doing the DNS resolution in the packet
return
You are allowed to use all the functions of the printf family.
For the smarty pants (or not)...
call a real ping.
5
Obviously you are NOT allowed toChapter V
Bonus Part
Find below a few ideas of interesting bonuses:
• Additional -f -l -n -w -W -p -r -s -T --ttl --ip-timestamp flags...
the flags -V, –usage, –echo are not considered as bonus
Of course two flags corresponding to the same feature (eg:
–type) are not considered as two bonuses
-t and
The bonus part will only be assessed if the mandatory part is
PERFECT. Perfect means the mandatory part has been integrally done
and works without malfunctioning. If you have not passed ALL the
mandatory requirements, your bonus part will not be evaluated at all.
6Chapter VI
Submission and peer-evaluation
Turn in your assignment in your Git repository as usual. Only the work inside your repos-
itory will be evaluated during the defense. Don’t hesitate to double check the names of
your folders and files to ensure they are correct.
• You have to be in a VM with a Linux kernel > 3.14. Note that grading was designed
on a Debian 7.0 stable.
• Except for the RTT line and the reverse DNS resolution, the result must have an
indentation identical to the implementation from inetutils-2.0.
A delay of +/- 30ms is tolerated on the reception of a packet.
7